About the CD

In This Readme
--------------
*	Checking out the system requirements

*	Using the CD with Windows, Linux, and Mac

*	What you’ll find on the CD

*	Troubleshooting

*	Contacting Customer Care

The CD-ROM accompanying C++ For Dummies, 6th Edition contains several
features. All readers, no matter what system they’re using, will
appreciate the source code to the programs that appear in the book.

In addition, 32-bit Windows users will welcome the inclusion of the
Code::Blocks development environment coupled with the GNU gcc compiler
ready to be installed.

System Requirements
-------------------
Make sure that your computer meets the minimum system requirements
shown in the following list. If your computer doesn't match up to most
of these requirements, you may have problems using the software and
files on the CD. For the latest and greatest information, please refer
to the ReadMe file located at the root of the CD-ROM:

	*	A PC running Microsoft Windows or Linux with kernel 2.4
		or later or a Macintosh running Apple OS X or later

	*	An Internet connection

	*	A CD-ROM drive

If you need more information on the basics, check out these books
published by Wiley Publishing, Inc.: PCs For Dummies, 11th Edition, by
Dan Gookin; Macs For Dummies, 10th Edition, by Edward C. Baig; iMacs
For Dummies, 5th Edition, by Mark L. Chambers; Windows XP For Dummies,
2nd Edition, and Windows Vista For Dummies, both by Andy Rathbone.

Using the CD
------------
To install the items from the CD to your hard drive, follow these
steps.

	1.	Insert the CD into your computer’s CD-ROM drive.

		The license agreement appears.

		Note to Windows users: The interface won't launch if
		you have autorun disabled. In that case, choose
		Start-->Run. (For Windows Vista, choose Start-->All
		Programs-->Accessories-->Run.) In the dialog box
		that appears, type D:\Start.exe. (Replace D with the
		proper letter if your CD drive uses a different letter.
		If you don't know the letter, see how your CD drive is
		listed under My Computer.) Click OK.

		Note for Mac Users: When the CD icon appears on your
		desktop, double-click the icon to open the CD and
		double-click the Start icon.

		Note for Linux Users: The specifics of mounting and
		using CDs vary greatly between different versions of
		Linux. Please see the manual or help information for
		your specific system if you experience trouble using
		this CD.

	2.	Read through the license agreement and then click the
		Accept button if you want to use the CD.

		The CD interface appears. The interface allows you to
		browse the contents and install the programs with just
		a click of a button (or two).

What You’ll Find on the CD
---------------------------
The following sections are arranged by category and provide a summary
of the software and other goodies you’ll find on the CD. If you need
help with installing the items provided on the CD, refer to the
installation instructions in the preceding section.

For each program listed, I provide the program platform (Windows or
Mac) plus the type of software. The programs fall into one of the
following categories:

	*	Shareware programs are fully functional, free, trial
	versions of copyrighted programs. If you like particular
	programs, register with their authors for a nominal fee and
	receive licenses, enhanced versions, and technical support.

	*	Freeware programs are free, copyrighted games,
	applications, and utilities. You can copy them to as many
	computers as you like -- for free -- but they offer no
	technical support.

	*	GNU software is governed by its own license, which is
	included inside the folder of the GNU software. There are no
	restrictions on distribution of GNU software. See the GNU
	license at the root of the CD for more details.

	*	Trial, demo, or evaluation versions of software are
	usually limited either by time or functionality (such as not
	letting you save a project after you create it).

CPP programs
-------------
For all environments. All the examples provided in this book are
located in the CPP_Programs directory on the CD and work with
Macintosh, Linux, Unix, and Windows computers. These files
contain the sample code from the book. Each example program is in its
own folder. For example, the Conversion program from Chapter1 is in:

CPP_Programs/Chap01/Conversion

For Windows. I have built a set of workspace and a set of project files
for Code::Blocks that allow you to recompile all the programs in the
book with a single mouse click. The AllPrograms.workspace file is
located in the CPP_Programs folder. (See Chapter 1 for an explanation
of Code::Blocks Project files.)

Code::Blocks development environment
-------------------------------------
For Windows. Code::Blocks is a freeware environment designed to work
with a number of different compilers. The version included on the CD-
ROM is bundled with the GNU gcc C++ compiler (version 4.4).

Troubleshooting
---------------
I tried my best to compile programs that work on most computers with
the minimum system requirements. Alas, your computer may differ, and
some programs may not work properly for some reason.

Remember that most C++ compilers don't support the 2009 C++ standard as
of this writing. Some of the programs included in the book may require
some slight modification to compile on compilers other than GNU gcc
version 4.4 or later. Specifically, not every feature used in the
example programs are available in Visual Studio as of this writing.
(Advanced features are flagged with the '09 icon in the book.)

Fortunately, the good people at GNU provide a gcc for almost every
platform you can think of. You can download a version for your machine
at www.gnu.org. A copy of gcc for Windows is included with Code::Blocks
on the enclosed CD-ROM.

Even gcc doesn't enable C++ '09 features by default. Be sure to
follow the instructions in Chapter 1 to enable '09 features.

I include Code::Blocks workspace and project files for the included C++
source. This allows you to recompile all the program with literally a
single click. However, these project files assume that the programs are
installed in the directory C:\\CPP_Programs. You'll have to set up your
own project files if you decide to install the source code in a
different directory.

Other possible problems you might run into are not enough memory (RAM)
for the programs you want to use, or having other programs running that
are affecting installation or running of a program. If you get an error
message such as Not enough memory or Setup cannot continue, try one or
more of the following suggestions and then try using the software
again:

	*	Turn off any antivirus software running on your
	computer. Installation programs sometimes mimic virus activity
	and may make your computer incorrectly believe that it’s being
	infected by a virus.

	*	Close all running programs. The more programs you have
	running, the less memory is available to other programs.
	Installation programs typically update files and programs; so
	if you keep other programs running, installation may not work
	properly.

	*	Have your local computer store add more RAM to your
	computer. This is, admittedly, a drastic and somewhat expensive
	step. However, adding more memory can really help the speed of
	your computer and allow more programs to run at the same time.

Customer Care
--------------
If you have trouble with the CD-ROM, please call Wiley Product
Technical Support at 800-762-2974. Outside the United States, call
317-572-3993. You can also contact Wiley Product Technical Support at
http://support.wiley.com. Wiley Publishing will provide technical
support only for installation and other general quality control items.
For technical support on the applications themselves, consult the
program’s vendor or author.

To place additional orders or to request information about other Wiley
products, please call 877-762-2974.

